In my earliest work on interest-relativity, the 2005 paper "Can We Do Without Pragmatic Encroachment", I argued for a belief-first approach to interest-relativity. In particular, I conceived of that paper as the start of a project where I would argue (a) that belief itself is interest-relative, and (b) that all the interest-relativity in epistemology could trace back to the interest-relativity of belief. The core idea was that the metaphysics of mind should be interest-relative, but the normative theory of mind need not be. Of course, if a state is by its nature interest-relative, then whether one ought be in that state could quite easily turn out to be interest-relative as well. But the thought was that interest-invariant norms, combined with interest-relative metaphysics, could explain all the phenomena.

This approach did not work out. The model of that paper assumed a very high degree of rationality on the part of the agents being modeled, and it turned out to be impossible to extend the model to less rational agents. (Kieran Setiya was the first to point out this problem to me.) On top of that, Jacob Ross and Mark Schroeder [-@RossSchroeder2014] pointed out that the way the model handled propositions that are irrelevant to one's practical interests wasn't working. In "Games, Beliefs and Credences" I suggested a 'fix', but I didn't really appreciate how much the fix undermined the motivations for the original view. 

In this book I'm taking a different approach. For one thing, I am defending a much more expansive picture of how interests affect epistemology. In chapter \@ref(evidence) I'm going to argue that evidence itself is interest-relative, and hence so is everything that depends on evidence. And in chapter \@ref(knowledge), I'm going to argue that a version of what Jason Stanley [-@Stanley2005] calls an 'ignorant high stakes' case shows that some of the interest-relativity of knowledge is not traceable to the interest-relativity of either belief or of rational belief.

And I'm going to offer a much more complicated story about the constitutive connection between interests and beliefs than I offered earlier. While I still think there is such a connection, I'm much more sympathetic to the suggestion by Jennifer Nagel [-@Nagel2008; -@Nagel2010] that often there is a merely causal connection. Some people's beliefs change when the practical situation changes because the situation causes them to see that it would be a mistake to hold on to their prior beliefs. This isn't interest-relativity in the sense being discussed here. Where I disagree with Nagel is that I think that for at least some people, the change in belief upon change in interests is more direct, and plausibly the change in interests is partially constitutive of the change in belief. But the situation is much messier than I had realised in earlier work, and Nagel's work revealed how I'd been over-simplifying things.
